I am Valeriy Lobanovskyi. Born in 1939 in Kyiv,
Ukraine. I am а Ukrainian football player and
manager. I was awarded the FIFA Order of Merit,
the highest honor awarded by FIFA. In 2002,
I was awarded the Hero of Ukraine
award, my nation's highest honor,
for my contribution to Ukrainian football.
I studied at the Kyiv school that was named
after me in the upcoming years. In
1956 I joined the Kyiv Polytechnic
Institute but later transferred to the Odessa
Polytechnic Institute, where I graduated.
I am most famous for my spells managing FC
Dynamo Kyiv and the USSR national football team.
I established Dynamo as the most dominant club
in Soviet football in the 1970s and 1980s,
winning the Soviet Top League eight times
and the Soviet Cup six times in 16 years.
In 1975, my Dynamo Kyiv team became the first
side from the Soviet Union to win a major
European trophy when they beat the Hungarian
side in the final of the Cup Winners' Cup.
During the tournament, Dynamo Kyiv won eight
games out of nine, resulting in a winning
percentage of 88 % – a record that stood
for 45 years encompassing all of the major
European club football competitions. I and my team
repeated our Cup Winners' Cup success in 1986,
beating Atletico Madrid in the final.
After returning to Dynamo Kyiv in 1997
for the third time, I led the team to another
successful run in a European competition.
I am is highly regarded due to my achievements
as a coach and am widely considered one of the
greatest managers of all time. Throughout my
coaching career, I won 33 official trophies,
becoming the second most decorated manager
of all time and the most successful football
manager of the 20th century. I have also
won the Ukrainian championship five times
out of five – an accomplishment
not matched by any other manager.
I hold my love for my nation in every
step of my career. My passion led me to
world records that I hope will inspire many
people to follow their dreams and wishes.